The first shift is simple: stop measuring AI work by the number of messages and start measuring the artifact or change produced.
The research distinguishes consultation from delegated production.
Consultation gives you information or suggestions.
Delegated production asks the system to create a document, transform data, modify a system, validate a change, or complete a workflow.
That difference appears across many tasks: drafting a memo from source files, cleaning a spreadsheet and checking totals, debugging a failing application, preparing a campaign, or producing structured research with citations.
Task horizon is evidence that users trust agents with larger pieces of work.
By May 2026, eighty point six percent of sampled individual users had made a request estimated above thirty minutes of human work, seventy point two percent above one hour, and twenty-five point six percent above eight hours.
The broadest request also tends to arrive at the beginning of a thread.
Later turns are narrower corrections and refinements.
Good delegation therefore begins with a complete work packet, not with a vague sentence followed by twenty rounds of missing context.
Intensive users organize work differently.
They run longer tasks, reuse skills, and sometimes coordinate several independent agents in parallel.
The human role shifts from typing every step to defining work, monitoring progress, reviewing evidence, and deciding where to intervene.
Treat the numbers carefully.
Human-time estimates are generated by a model and should be read as directional.
OpenAI employees also work in an unusually favorable environment with broad access, low friction, and strong internal knowledge sharing, so their adoption pattern is not a promise for every team.
Chapter recap.
First, measure the artifact or change produced, not the number of messages.
Second, delegate a complete work packet rather than revealing essential context one correction at a time.
Third, treat task-horizon data as evidence of a shift, not as proof that every long task belongs to an agent.